### Conceptual Exercise

Answer the following questions below:

- What is PostgreSQL?

open source relational database management system RDBMS that is widely used for managing structured data. started in 1996. scalable, extensible, and robust, supports data types like numeric, string, date/ time, boolean, and user defined times. can support transactions, concurrency control, and data integrity through use of constraints and triggers. 

used in web apps, data analytics, free and open source


- What is the difference between SQL and PostgreSQL?

SQL is for managing relational databases , postgresql is a specific relational database management that uses SQL as its primary query language. 

postgresql is different bc its open source, so its got a big following.it has many features as listed above and supports a lot of data types.

- In `psql`, how do you connect to a database?

psql -U <username> -d <database_name> -h <hostname> -p <port_number>


- What is the difference between `HAVING` and `WHERE`?

The WHERE is used to filter rows before any grouping is performed, and HAVING is filtering groups after using GROUP BY 

- What is the difference between an `INNER` and `OUTER` join?

INNER only returns rows where theres a match based on the join condition.

OUTER will return rows and if there is no matching value will return NULL in either column 

- What is the difference between a `LEFT OUTER` and `RIGHT OUTER` join?

left will return all rows of table one and any matching rows from table 2 or NULL if there is no matching value. 

RIGHT OUTER is the same as above except with the tables transposed

- What is an ORM? What do they do?

allows programmers to treat data like a map of objects. can work w/ SQL in a more natural way to devs. classes represent tables etc etc, ORM can write with data objects for CRUD operations

- What are some differences between making HTTP requests using AJAX 
  and from the server side using a library like `requests`?

AJAX means that the request is more reponsive and interactive b/c a page doesnt have to reload to update content

server side requests alternatively might be more secure, can use authentication and controls

AJAX has cross domain request limitations

AJAX reduces server load 

serverside requires more caching strategies 



- What is CSRF? What is the purpose of the CSRF token?

if a web app trusts the user browser to authenticate credentials in app requests, they have to verify that they were intiated by the user

CSRF is a unique unpredictable value generated by the server and included in the initial request and then requests after. the server can verify the token is there and matches. 

to impliment it, server generates a random token when a user loads a form or other sensitive pages, and includes the token in a hidden field or HTTP header. then the server verifies the validity. if it doesnt match, the server can reject it. 

- What is the purpose of `form.hidden_tag()`?

hides a token used for CSRF. hides the token with the form or sensitive request